docs/guide/execution/job/adhoc-execution.md, before:

# Adhoc Execution

This page will discuss how to run once-off, or **adhoc** Job executions. An adhoc Job is one that is not scheduled automatically (e.g. from a cron schedule), but rather started explicitly (such as via user creation or external triggers).

## JobConfig Templating

A Job is typically created from a JobConfig, since the JobConfig controller groups together multiple Job objects and controls their lifecycle and behavior.

### `configName`

To create a Job from a JobConfig, the simplest way is to specify the `configName` of a JobConfig in the same namespace:

```{.yaml title="Example: Creating Jobs with configName"}
apiVersion: execution.furiko.io/v1alpha1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: jobconfig-sample-
spec:
  configName: jobconfig-sample
  optionValues: |-
    username: bob
```

The [webhook](../../development/architecture/execution-webhook.md) is responsible for transforming the Job creation request, so that all fields will be populated from the JobConfig. The end result would be the following, extremely comprehensive Job configuration. Some fields are explained below.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
??? example "Example: Final Result after transforming Jobs with configName"
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: execution.furiko.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Job
    metadata:
      annotations:
        # Internal annotation used to "snapshot" the JobOptionsSpec of the JobConfig.
        execution.furiko.io/options-spec-hash: 91305051fc67f709
      creationTimestamp: "2022-03-15T07:35:21Z"
      finalizers:
      # This finalizer is needed by the JobController.
      - execution.furiko.io/delete-dependents-finalizer
      generateName: jobconfig-sample-
      generation: 1
      labels:
        # Internal label used to identify owner JobConfig.
        execution.furiko.io/job-config-uid: cd346c6f-4493-42b5-a813-8787a68ec74c
      name: jobconfig-sample-p8fzq
      namespace: default
      # Owner reference of JobConfig controller.
      ownerReferences:
      - apiVersion: execution.furiko.io/v1alpha1
        blockOwnerDeletion: true
        controller: true
        kind: JobConfig
        name: jobconfig-sample
        uid: cd346c6f-4493-42b5-a813-8787a68ec74c
      resourceVersion: "585289534"
      uid: f02bf84c-ab06-4121-9c7f-be50ff61de72
    spec:
      type: Adhoc
      optionValues: '{"username":"bob"}'
      startPolicy:
        # Inherited from the JobConfig's concurrency.policy.
        concurrencyPolicy: Forbid
      substitutions:
        # Addition of jobconfig context variables.
        jobconfig.cron_schedule: H/15 * * * *
        jobconfig.name: jobconfig-sample
        jobconfig.namespace: default
        jobconfig.timezone: Asia/Singapore
        # Evaluted option variables.
        option.image-tag: latest
        option.username: Example User
      # Inherited from the JobConfig's spec.template.
      template:
        task:
          template:
            metadata: {}
            spec:
              containers:
              - args:
                - echo
                - Hello world, ${option.username}!
                env:
                - name: JOBCONFIG_NAME
                  value: ${jobconfig.name}
                - name: JOB_NAME
                  value: ${job.name}
                - name: TASK_NAME
                  value: ${task.name}
                image: alpine:${option.image-tag}
                name: job-container
                resources:
                  limits:
                    cpu: 100m
                    memory: 64Mi
              restartPolicy: Never
      ttlSecondsAfterFinished: 3600
    ```

### `optionValues`

When creating a Job from a JobConfig, you can also specify `optionValues` which declares the value for each option defined in the JobConfig's [Job Options](../jobconfig/job-options.md).

The `optionValues` must be a YAML or JSON encoded string of a map from the option's `name` to the corresponding value. The value may be of any admissible type, depending on the option's `type.

```{.yaml title="Example: Job with optionValues"}
apiVersion: execution.furiko.io/v1alpha1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: jobconfig-sample-
spec:
  configName: jobconfig-sample
  optionValues: |-
    # String and Select options accept only strings.
    # Numbers or booleans must be quoted in YAML.
    configName: default-config
    userCount: "3"

    # Multi options accept a list of strings.
    userList:
    - mary
    - bob
    - alice

    # Bool options accept a boolean value.
    verbose: true
```

If not specified in `optionValues`, the default value (if any) from the JobConfig will be used. Otherwise, if it is also `required`, a validation error will be thrown if there is no default and not explicitly defined in `optionValues`.

After evaluation, the final rendered values will be stored inside `substitutions`. See the previous section for a full example.

### Concurrency

When creating a Job from a JobConfig, it is still subject to the JobConfig's [concurrency policy](../jobconfig/concurrency.md). The [`startPolicy`](./start-policy.md) automatically inherits the JobConfig's `concurrency.policy` if not defined.

However, you can also explicitly specify `startPolicy.concurrencyPolicy` in the Job's spec, so that it _does not_ follow the JobConfig's actual policy:

```yaml
apiVersion: execution.furiko.io/v1alpha1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: jobconfig-sample-
spec:
  configName: jobconfig-sample
  startPolicy:
    concurrencyPolicy: Enqueue
```

Assuming the JobConfig uses `Forbid`, this effectively allows us to schedule an adhoc execution after all currently running Jobs are completed.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
!!! info
    Explicitly specifying `startPolicy.concurrencyPolicy` in a Job may be a violation of the JobConfig's intended behavior, especially if the Job sets it to `Allow` even though the JobConfig uses `Forbid`. Use this with caution.

## Scheduling Adhoc Future Executions

Jobs can also be started in the future, rather than starting immediately upon creation. You can create a Job with `startAfter` as follows:

```{.yaml title="Example: Creating Job with startAfter"}
apiVersion: execution.furiko.io/v1alpha1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: jobconfig-sample-
spec:
  configName: jobconfig-sample
  startPolicy:
    concurrencyPolicy: Enqueue
    startAfter: 2022-03-06T00:27:00+08:00
```

For more details, see [Start Policy](./start-policy.md).

## Independent Jobs

It is also possible to run Jobs without a JobConfig. However, this is not recommended as it would disable the features mentioned above, including the ability to use `optionValues` and enforcing concurrency policies.

In such a case, you have to explicitly specify the `template` of the Job yourself. For an example, see [Sample Configuration](./sample-configuration.md#standalone-job).

Commit message:

feat(docs): Update with latest APIs and features, add roadmap link

docs/guide/execution/job/adhoc-execution.md, after:

# Adhoc Execution

This page will discuss how to run once-off, or **adhoc** Job executions. An adhoc Job is one that is not scheduled automatically (e.g. from a cron schedule), but rather started explicitly (such as via user creation or external triggers).

## Using the CLI

The easiest way to run an adhoc Job execution is to use the [`furiko` CLI tool](../../setup/cli.md):

<figure markdown="1">
  ![Example of `furiko run` in action](./img/furiko-run.png)
</figure>

It is recommended to use `furiko run`, which supports the following features:

- Interactive prompt for [option values](../jobconfig/job-options.md) (suppress with `--use-default-options`)
- Specify future timestamp to [start after](./start-policy.md#startafter) (with `--at`)

## Creating a Job from a JobConfig

A Job is typically created from a JobConfig, since the JobConfig controller groups together multiple Job objects and controls their lifecycle and behavior.

### `configName`

To create a Job from a JobConfig, the simplest way is to specify the `configName` of a JobConfig in the same namespace:

```{.yaml title="Example: Creating Jobs with configName"}
apiVersion: execution.furiko.io/v1alpha1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: jobconfig-sample-
spec:
  configName: jobconfig-sample
  optionValues: |-
    username: bob
```

The [webhook](../../development/architecture/execution-webhook.md) is responsible for transforming the Job creation request, so that all fields will be populated from the JobConfig. The end result would be the following, extremely comprehensive Job configuration. Some fields are explained below.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
??? example "Example: Final Result after transforming Jobs with configName"
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: execution.furiko.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Job
    metadata:
      annotations:
        # Internal annotation used to "snapshot" the JobOptionsSpec of the JobConfig.
        execution.furiko.io/options-spec-hash: 91305051fc67f709
      creationTimestamp: "2022-03-15T07:35:21Z"
      finalizers:
      # This finalizer is needed by the JobController.
      - execution.furiko.io/delete-dependents-finalizer
      generateName: jobconfig-sample-
      generation: 1
      labels:
        # Internal label used to identify owner JobConfig.
        execution.furiko.io/job-config-uid: cd346c6f-4493-42b5-a813-8787a68ec74c
      name: jobconfig-sample-p8fzq
      namespace: default
      # Owner reference of JobConfig controller.
      ownerReferences:
      - apiVersion: execution.furiko.io/v1alpha1
        blockOwnerDeletion: true
        controller: true
        kind: JobConfig
        name: jobconfig-sample
        uid: cd346c6f-4493-42b5-a813-8787a68ec74c
      resourceVersion: "585289534"
      uid: f02bf84c-ab06-4121-9c7f-be50ff61de72
    spec:
      type: Adhoc
      optionValues: '{"username":"bob"}'
      startPolicy:
        # Inherited from the JobConfig's concurrency.policy.
        concurrencyPolicy: Forbid
      substitutions:
        # Addition of jobconfig context variables.
        jobconfig.cron_schedule: H/15 * * * *
        jobconfig.name: jobconfig-sample
        jobconfig.namespace: default
        jobconfig.timezone: Asia/Singapore
        # Evaluted option variables.
        option.image-tag: latest
        option.username: Example User
      # Inherited from the JobConfig's spec.template.
      template:
        maxAttempts: 1
        taskTemplate:
          pod:
            metadata: {}
            spec:
              containers:
              - args:
                - echo
                - Hello world, ${option.username}!
                env:
                - name: JOBCONFIG_NAME
                  value: ${jobconfig.name}
                - name: JOB_NAME
                  value: ${job.name}
                - name: TASK_NAME
                  value: ${task.name}
                image: alpine:${option.image-tag}
                name: job-container
                resources:
                  limits:
                    cpu: 100m
                    memory: 64Mi
              restartPolicy: Never
      ttlSecondsAfterFinished: 3600
    ```

### `optionValues`

When creating a Job from a JobConfig, you can also specify `optionValues` which declares the value for each option defined in the JobConfig's [Job Options](../jobconfig/job-options.md).

The `optionValues` must be a YAML or JSON encoded string of a map from the option's `name` to the corresponding value. The value may be of any admissible type, depending on the option's `type.

```{.yaml title="Example: Job with optionValues"}
apiVersion: execution.furiko.io/v1alpha1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: jobconfig-sample-
spec:
  configName: jobconfig-sample
  optionValues: |-
    # String and Select options accept only strings.
    # Numbers or booleans must be quoted in YAML.
    configName: default-config
    userCount: "3"

    # Multi options accept a list of strings.
    userList:
    - mary
    - bob
    - alice

    # Bool options accept a boolean value.
    verbose: true
```

If not specified in `optionValues`, the default value (if any) from the JobConfig will be used. Otherwise, if it is also `required`, a validation error will be thrown if there is no default and not explicitly defined in `optionValues`.

After evaluation, the final rendered values will be stored inside `substitutions`. See the previous section for a full example.

### Concurrency

When creating a Job from a JobConfig, it is still subject to the JobConfig's [concurrency policy](../jobconfig/concurrency.md). The [`startPolicy`](./start-policy.md) automatically inherits the JobConfig's `concurrency.policy` if not defined.

However, you can also explicitly specify `startPolicy.concurrencyPolicy` in the Job's spec, so that it _does not_ follow the JobConfig's actual policy:

```yaml
apiVersion: execution.furiko.io/v1alpha1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: jobconfig-sample-
spec:
  configName: jobconfig-sample
  startPolicy:
    concurrencyPolicy: Enqueue
```

Assuming the JobConfig uses `Forbid`, this effectively allows us to schedule an adhoc execution after all currently running Jobs are completed.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
!!! info
    Explicitly specifying `startPolicy.concurrencyPolicy` in a Job may be a violation of the JobConfig's intended behavior, especially if the Job sets it to `Allow` even though the JobConfig uses `Forbid`. Use this with caution.

## Scheduling Adhoc Future Executions

Jobs can also be started in the future, rather than starting immediately upon creation. You can create a Job with `startAfter` as follows:

```{.yaml title="Example: Creating Job with startAfter"}
apiVersion: execution.furiko.io/v1alpha1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: jobconfig-sample-
spec:
  configName: jobconfig-sample
  startPolicy:
    concurrencyPolicy: Enqueue
    startAfter: 2022-03-06T00:27:00+08:00
```

For more details, see [Start Policy](./start-policy.md).

## Independent Jobs

It is also possible to run Jobs without a JobConfig. However, this is not recommended as it would disable the features mentioned above, including the ability to use `optionValues` and enforcing concurrency policies.

In such a case, you have to explicitly specify the `template` of the Job yourself. For an example, see [Sample Configuration](./sample-configuration.md#standalone-job).
