docs/guide/contributing/overview.md, before:

# Contribution Guide

We're so excited that you want to contribute to Furiko! Here we will briefly outline the different ways you can contribute to the project.

## Core Kubernetes Operators

We welcome all code contributions to the core Furiko Kubernetes operators. This includes the following:

- [**Execution**](../execution/concepts.md): Configuration and execution of scheduled and adhoc jobs.
- Federation (WIP): Add-on for managing jobs across multiple Kubernetes clusters.
- Telemetry (WIP): Add-on for notifications, monitoring and telemetry of jobs and executions.

The code for the Kubernetes operators lives in <https://github.com/furiko-io/furiko>. For more information, refer to the [Contribution Guide](https://github.com/furiko-io/furiko/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

We also welcome design proposals, feature requests and ideas for the scope of Furiko. Please head over to the [issue tracker on GitHub](https://github.com/furiko-io/furiko/issues) and open an issue to discuss your idea there.

## Command-Line Tools

We currently don't have a dedicated command-line tool for Furiko yet, but we hope to develop one. If you would like to start the ball rolling, we would love to hear from you.

## User Interface

We currently don't have a user interface for Furiko. If you have experience in building performant and complex web applications, we would love to hear from you.

## Documentation

You can also contribute to this very site! If you find that any documentation is lacking or unclear, or if you simply found a typo, we are more than happe to accept contributions big or small.

The code for this website lives in <https://github.com/furiko-io/docs>. For more information, refer to the [Contribution Guide](https://github.com/furiko-io/docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Testing

No project can succeed without the confidence of tests, including both automated tests and the hard work of QA testers.

Some areas that we would love contributions in include:

- Setting up test infrastructure
- Designing end-to-end tests for controllers and webhooks
- Increasing code coverage of unit tests
- Stress testing
- Security testing and fuzzing

## Other Ways to Contribute

There are tons of other ways to contribute to the project.

- **Report a bug**: You can report a bug via the [issue tracker on GitHub](https://github.com/furiko-io/furiko/issues).
- **Request a feature**: You can also request features via the [issue tracker on GitHub](https://github.com/furiko-io/furiko/issues).

Commit message:

feat(docs): Update with latest APIs and features, add roadmap link

docs/guide/contributing/overview.md, after:

# Contribution Guide

We're so excited that you want to contribute to Furiko! We will briefly outline the different ways you can contribute to the project.

## Roadmap

Before contributing, refer to the [Roadmap](./roadmap.md) which covers planned features and developments for Furiko.

## Core Kubernetes Operators

We welcome all code contributions to the core Furiko Kubernetes operators. This includes the following:

- [**Execution**](../execution/concepts.md): Configuration and execution of scheduled and adhoc jobs.
- Federation (WIP): Add-on for managing jobs across multiple Kubernetes clusters.
- Telemetry (WIP): Add-on for notifications, monitoring and telemetry of jobs and executions.

The code for the Kubernetes operators lives in <https://github.com/furiko-io/furiko>. For more information, refer to the [Contribution Guide](https://github.com/furiko-io/furiko/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

We also welcome design proposals, feature requests and ideas for the scope of Furiko. Please head over to the [issue tracker on GitHub](https://github.com/furiko-io/furiko/issues) and open an issue to discuss your idea there.

## Command-Line Tools

The [`furiko` CLI tool](../setup/cli.md) is also located in the [main Furiko repository](https://github.com/furiko-io/furiko). For more information, refer to the [Contribution Guide](https://github.com/furiko-io/furiko/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## User Interface

We currently don't have a user interface for Furiko. If you have experience in building performant and complex web applications, we would love to hear from you.

## Documentation

You can also contribute to this very site! If you find that any documentation is lacking or unclear, or if you simply found a typo, we are more than happe to accept contributions big or small.

The code for this website lives in <https://github.com/furiko-io/docs>. For more information, refer to the [Contribution Guide](https://github.com/furiko-io/docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Testing

No project can succeed without the confidence of tests, including both automated tests and the hard work of QA testers.

Some areas that we would love contributions in include:

- Setting up test infrastructure
- Designing end-to-end tests for controllers and webhooks
- Increasing code coverage of unit tests
- Stress/scalability testing
- Security testing and fuzzing

## Other Ways to Contribute

There are tons of other ways to contribute to the project.

- **Report a bug**: You can report a bug via the [issue tracker on GitHub](https://github.com/furiko-io/furiko/issues).
- **Request a feature**: You can also request features via the [issue tracker on GitHub](https://github.com/furiko-io/furiko/issues).
